Bernardyn will be a plotting package for small angle scattering data “SAS” data - which could be SAXS, SANS, USAXS, USANS. We will be plotting 1D data which is X, Y, and optionally uncertainty for Y, in other words dY. We may be plotting 2D data from area detector images. These data input format we will be using hdf5 files. I will provide an example of an hdf5 file where we need to locate the small angle scattering data you following a standard called NXcanSAS for line data (X/Y) and NXsas for raw detector images. I will provide example and instructions how to find the data in the file. 
Now for plotting we will be doing either line graphs, XY graph with error bars for the Y. These will most commonly be in a log log scales, but it potentially also log lin and lin-lin in various combinations. We will be doing plotting one or multiple data sets at the same graph And when we do that, we will plot either multiple lines overlaying each other (with varying colors and symbols and line types), or we will to plot multiple data in 3D version - with third axis being order number of the datas et- as a waterfall plot or as 2D color image where assign a color scale to an intensity (the y values), while plotting x values on horizontal and data order on vertical axis, making a colored plot which will be showing up where the peaks are uh along the data collection axes there. For the area detector images, we will be plotting a 2D graph as an image and we will need to do a linear color scale or colored color scale, and we will be providing allowing users to do measure to plot with multiple color scales on their choosing.
Now, Bernardyn is a package which is designed for users to actually generate such plots, and it provides users with controls for how to modify these plots. So we will need to have controls for line type, color of different lines, how the which type of plot it is, symbol type, symbol size, exist legends, if grids are used or not used, if any other labels are used, potentially we're gonna need to be able to add some drawings into the package, into the graphs and we're gonna need to be able to generate multiples of these graphs from one widget. So I imagine that user selects um let's say ten datasets and then tries to plot them one way or another way or another way, generating three different graphs.
The graphical interface will be a panel. On the left side of the panel will be a data selector tool widget. So it will need to be able to uh select a folder using a dialog uh then it will need be able need to be able to display the content in a list box where we can select one or more continuous or non-continuous datasets. We need a way to select different types of extensions. At the beginning, we will support as an input type HDFI files and various types of text files, so it would be a.txt or csv, which would be a two or three column uh ASCII files and then we need to be able to do sorting. So we need to sort be able to sort alphabetically or using an order number for for now an order number which is part of the name, which is the last number before the uh extension. We will also need to be able in the name to identify uh time Time with which has a minute M-I-N in it. We need to be able to identify temperature, which then has a D E G capital C E in it and potentially other things. We also need to be able to downselect or downscope the uh date the names which are visible in the widget for which we're gonna use regular expressions or a string matching, but preferred regular expression. That's gonna be a left side of the panel. On the right hand side of the panel will be all the different call uh controls for generating the graph. So there's going to be a control which will allow us to select what type of graph it is, which will allow us select um what the different lines are what the different axes are what the range of axes is and all the other controls will be in here we're gonna need some action buttons like generate the graph and so on, and we're gonna go from there further. 
The tool should keep its state so it should remember what was the last data folder selected, and we will also need to be able somehow to save templates for the user graphs. So when the user generates a graph and the graph has a specific size and a shape and settings for the different lines and different choices inside. We will need to be able to save that because the user may want to generate the same template graph with different sets of data and so we're gonna need to somehow design a set of templates which we can then capture the templates from the existing graph and then reapply them to a different graph using the graphical interface. So we should probably generate some kind of templ where we can capture the template which will also add it in the choice of a panel. So the panel should have a choice of apply known template and reuse that. Then also with that means that we're gonna have to design a some kind of interface, separate interface for management of the template. So we're gonna have to be able to go and delete or rename the templates because users will need to occasionally remove the old ones or modify the existing ones or do something. So we need to be able to hold multiple templates for the tool.
The graphs gonna need to be have an option to be exported and obviously we need to have exports in various ways. So we're gonna need to have a control-c or command-c on a Mac ability to copy into clipboard for pasting into documents. We're gonna need to be able to save a JPEG, uh, PNG or SVG versions of the graph if appropriate and we probably gonna need to be able to save the data as a some kind of package. So I'm kind of imagining that the data from the graph could be saved into an HDFI file together with some instructions how to recreate the graph. So effectively what I'm suggesting that the tool may want to have its own designed um container type file where we could go in and reload this whole package of data instead of and and recreate the graph as it is so in some way that would contain the data as well as the state or a template used for it and this would be its own data format so the tool can then um you know user doesn't have to store the graphs themselves which then cannot be modified but could store the HDFI file with the extracted data used in the graph, with the all the formatting, so they could go in, reload this into the tool and then potentially modify or do something further with it or maybe even add data from other files into it.
Basically, we need to design for now a very open system which will be extendable and well thought through for the future changes. So we need to make sure all the functions are separated in a very good structural way so they can then we can go in and plug in more stuff as we need to to you do in the future.

TestData folder contains test data LnG_0103.hdf” for both Intensity vs Q line data and for raw image data. The raw image data are usually found in root\entry\data\ and are 2D data set “data”. Names may vary, location should not, but either way, most of these files will contain only one 2D data set. So fallback may be just find the first 2D data set in the file and use that. This will be plotted when user wants to look at RAW data. This will not have handling for multiple data sets - at least for now I do too even know how to handle that.
Now, reduced 1D SAXS data need to be found by looking at attributes. A file we will use shoudl have at least one group in root (here root\entry) which has NX_class attribute “NXentry”. An attribute do this group entry shoudl be also “SASentry” which indicates we have SAXS data in there. If that is in we look for attribute default which in this case is “LnG”, there shoudl be group inside called LnG. That group has attribute canSAS_class = SASentry and default=sasdata. This indicates we can expect SAS data in group called sasdata. Group sass data has attribute NX_class=NXdata and he attribute canSAS_class = SASdata, telling us we should have SAS data in here. 
If we got here the attribute signal = I is telling us that main Y data are in array I, attribute I_axes=Q is telling us the x axis is in Q. I has attributes like label with file name where it came from, long_name=Intesnity, uncertainties=Idev (telling us what errors source is in Idev) and units. Similarly Q has attributes like long_name and units and “resolutions” which is dQ resolution. We may want to add optionally the dQ as x uncertainty (as option, used rarely). However this gets bit more complicated when data are slit smeared, we will deal with this separately - wed need to add option to plot slit smeared data in those are discovered in the file - see the file RH1_0085.h5. this is different instrument which does not generate 2D image, but generated slit smeared data (Rh1_SMR) and desmeared fully corrected data Rh1. We will need option to display either of these two data if found in file. Another control on main GUI which will be enabled if we open data set with both. 
If a data set has multiple data in it - rare, but possible, we will use all of the data in one graph for now, in the future we may choose to add some way of selecting which ones to use. But for now - I do not have data sets with multiple data yet - let’s assume we use all in the same graph. 
 